Create BluRay Video
OVERVIEW
Creating Video (DVD & BLU-RAY) from pictures & video taken on our trips.
The assumption is that everything is in chronological order. Video is inserted in the appropriate place in pictures.
Sometime allowances must be made to maintain flow and importance of some of the pictures. Some individuals would prefer showing pictures then video, while others visa versa.

Having one camera makes it easy to put pictures in the right order. However that is not always the case.

Put your pictures in separate folders for each day. Within that folder another folder for each camera. also separate your video from your pictures.

The advantage of using Kdenlive is being able create a set of slides from a folder. Other video editors require you to insert each picture.
Also, creating the correct mp4 file for bluray conversion with compression without loss of quality.
Kdenlive custom Bluray option changes sound to ac3
Plan your bluray to determine each 1-6 chapters (using Nero templates limit it to 6 chapters). Each mp4 file will be a chapter.
For DVD size files to share, use Kdenlive custom Bluray option, but change dimensions to 720x480 and 100% quality. Also change name (add dvd in name) to prevent overwriting.
However, the folder pictures need to be organized and formatted.

The use of Nero to create DVD & BLURAY is nice & inexpensive. However, modification is necessary. The DVD quality will start to diminish if longer than 1.5 hours.
The BLURAY can be of high quality if created specially and you keep it under about 2.5 hours. 

Under Nero, determine your chapters. Based on your chose of templates. Keep to one page (4-6 chapters).

STEP ONE - PREPARING PICTURES
Put your pictures in separate folders for each day. Within that folder another folder for each camera. also separate your video from your pictures.
 pic2024 (top folder)
  pic20241223 (subfolder format picyyyymmmdd)
    camera1 (subsubfolder)
    camera2 (subsubfolder)
    ...

convert all pictures to .jpg  (rename .jpeg to .jpg)
  Convert heic to jpg:
     mogrify -format jpg -quality 100 *.heic

if just one camera, no additional changes.

if one folder with facebook pictures or other pictures with no exif data, need to rename them in the format yyyy_mm_dd_nnn_xxxxxxxxx.jpg.
to reduce this effort, just rename one picture and put it in a new folder (ie merge1).
use program mergeinto.. to merge the remaining pictures in the right order.

multiple picture/camera folders:
  two folders at time.
     no exif and exif
        convert exif using program convonedir
        use program mergeinto.. to merge no exif folder into new folder created by convonedir
     both exif
        use program mergetwodir.. to merge the two folders.
     no exif but of the format yyyyyyyy_mm_dd_nnn_xxxxxxxxx.jpg, can use mergetwodir..

after completing the above, so the pictures are in chronological order, execute program photorot1080
  photo correction:
      this converts pictures with exif data that is not 1 to 1.
  individual photos:
      this executes indivphoto which let you review the pictures to correct them rotationally.
  convert 1080:
      this converts the pictures to 1920x1080 with black background to fill in.

STEP TWO - MERGE PICTURES AND VIDEO
  use kdenlive to merge pictures to video. Keep videos under 40 minutes.
  render as .mp4 with audio converted to ac3.

STEP THREE - CREATE BLU RAY
  use nero video editor create a movie for each .mp4 file
  crop each video to 30 seconds.
  create a blu ray output to harddrive.
  use tsMuxer to convert each mp4 to blu ray folder
  merge tsMuxer folders into nero blu ray folder.


 
